Step 1.

Step 2.
Step 3.
Step 4.

Step 5.

Step 6.

Step 7.

Step 8.

Step 9.

Analyze transactions. Analyze source documents to determine their effects on the basic
accounting equation. The data about transactions appears on a variety of source documents
such as:

e sales slips,
o purchase invoices,
o credit memorandums,

check stubs.

Journalize the transactions. Record the effects of the transactions in a journal.
Post the journal entries. Transfer data from the journal to the general ledger accounts.

Prepare a worksheet. At the end of each period, prepare a worksheet.

o Use the Trial Balance section to prove the equality of debits and credits in the general
ledger.

o Use the Adjustments section to enter changes in account balances that are needed to
present an accurate and complete picture of the financial affairs of the business.

o Use the Adjusted Trial Balance section to verify the equality of debits and credits after the
adjustments. Extend the amounts from the Adjusted Trial Balance section to the Income
Statement and Balance Sheet sections.

o Use the Income Statement and Balance Sheet sections to prepare the financial statements.

Prepare financial statements. Prepare financial statements to report information to owners,
managers, and other interested parties.

o The income statement shows the results of operations for the period.

o The statement of owner's equity reports the changes in the owner’s financial interest during
the period.

o The balance sheet shows the financial position of the business at the end of the period.

Journalize and post the adjusting entries. Use the worksheet to journalize and post adjusting
entries. The adjusting entries are a permanent record of the changes in account balances
shown on the worksheet.

Journalize and post the closing entries. Journalize and post the closing entries to:

e transfer net income or net loss to owner's equity;
reduce the balances of the revenue, expense, and drawing accounts to zero.

Prepare a postclosing trial balance. The postclosing trial balance shows that the general ledger
is in balance after the closing entries are posted. It is also used to verify that there are zero
balances in revenue, expense, and drawing accounts.

Interpret the financial information. Use financial statements to understand and communicate
financial information and to make decisions. Accountants, owners, managers, and other
interested parties interpret financial statements by comparing such things as profit, revenue,
and expenses from one accounting period to the next.
